Question 5.5.3. Question 3. Exam Style Questions.
The radius of a cylindrical container with height x cm is: r(x)
equals 56 over x. 4 less than or equal to x less
than or equal to 16 This question is worth 7 marks.
Find the range of r. [3 marks]
r(x) equals 56 over x is a decreasing function on [4. 16].
r(4) equals 56 over 4 equals 14
r(16) equals 56 over 16 equals 3.5
Since r is decreasing. the range goes
from the largest to smallest value.
Range: 3.5 less than or equal to r less than or equal to 14
Find r inverse(8). [2 marks]
Set r(x) equals 8 and solve for x.
56 over x equals 8
x equals 56 over 8 equals 7
r inverse(8) equals 7
Find the range of r inverse. [1 mark]
The range of f inverse equals domain of f.
Range of r inverse: 4 less than or equal to x less than or equal to 16
Interpret the answer to part (b)(i) in context. [1 mark]
When the radius of the container is 8 cm. the height is 7 cm.
IB exam tip: Range of f inverse equals Domain of f. and
Domain of f inverse equals Range of f. This is always true!